Modify S6109(js): Make the rule LayC compliant (#5378)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6109/javascript/rule.adoc

instructions to ``++Object.prototype++``, used to build every object.

Below are some real-world scenarios that illustrate some impacts of an attacker
exploiting the vulnerability.

==== Application Denial of Service (DoS)
An attacker can pollute the prototype with properties that cause the application
to crash or become unresponsive. +
For example, they might add a property that your application's code expects to
be a function but is now a simple string.
When the code tries to execute this property as a function, it will trigger an
error, potentially halting the application for all users.

==== Property Injection and Logic Hijacking
This attack involves injecting properties that your application's code later
uses in security-sensitive decisions. +
In a fictional scenario where the app checks for administrative privileges by
looking for the property `isAdmin`, an attacker polluting Object.prototype could
set this property to `true` and gain unauthorized access without proper
credentials.

==== Arbitrary Code Execution
Finally, this vulnerability leads to code execution when the vulnerable
application uses a polluted property to dynamically execute commands.

== How to fix it

> 

Author: ```suggestion

=== Code examples

```

== Why is this an issue?

Prototype pollution is a vulnerability that occurs when an attacker can modify
an object's base prototype. +
In JavaScript, almost all objects inherit properties and methods from a shared
``++Object.prototype++``. If an attacker can add or change properties on this
shared entity, every object in the application will inherit those malicious
changes.

=== What is the potential impact?

To exploit prototype pollution vulnerabilities, attackers add faulty
instructions to ``++Object.prototype++``, used to build every object.

Below are some real-world scenarios that illustrate some impacts of an attacker
exploiting the vulnerability.

> ==== Application Denial of Service (DoS)

Author: done

==== Property Injection and Logic Hijacking
This attack involves injecting properties that your application's code later
uses in security-sensitive decisions. +
In a fictional scenario where the app checks for administrative privileges by
looking for the property `isAdmin`, an attacker polluting Object.prototype could
set this property to `true` and gain unauthorized access without proper
credentials.

==== Arbitrary Code Execution
Finally, this vulnerability leads to code execution when the vulnerable
application uses a polluted property to dynamically execute commands.

== How to fix it

=== Code examples

=== Noncompliant code example

[source,javascript,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
function merge(target, source) {
    for (let key in source) {
        if (typeof target[key] === 'object' && typeof source[key] === 'object') {
            merge(target[key], source[key]);
        } else {
            target[key] = source[key];
        }
    }
    return target;
}

const userDefaults = {};
userDefaults.isAdmin = false;

function isAdmin(req, res) {
    const user = merge(userDefaults, req.body);
    return user.isAdmin;
};
----

=== Compliant solution

> The following samples adopt secure coding practices to prevent unauthorized

Author: Done ! I have to admit I was also not sure about this one, and afraid the freeze solution would have more severe drawbacks. I changed it!

modifications to object prototypes by creating objects without a prototype:

[source,javascript,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
function merge(target, source) {
    for (let key in source) {
        if (typeof target[key] === 'object' && typeof source[key] === 'object') {
            merge(target[key], source[key]);
        } else {
            target[key] = source[key];
        }
    }
    return target;
}

const userDefaults = Object.create(null);
userDefaults.isAdmin = false;

function (req, res) {
    const user = merge(userDefaults, req.body);
    return user.isAdmin;
};
----

=== How does this work?

==== Create Objects Without Prototypes
When you create a new object that will be populated with user-controlled data,
such as parsing a JSON string from a request, you can create it without a
prototype. This type of object, often called a "dictionary" or "map," cannot be
polluted because it does not inherit from Object.prototype. You can achieve

> this using Object.create(null).

Author: done

== How to fix it

=== Code examples

=== Noncompliant code example

[source,javascript,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
function merge(target, source) {
    for (let key in source) {
        if (typeof target[key] === 'object' && typeof source[key] === 'object') {
            merge(target[key], source[key]);
        } else {
            target[key] = source[key]; // Noncompliant
        }
    }
    return target;
}

const userDefaults = {};
userDefaults.isAdmin = false;

function isAdmin(req, res) {
    const user = merge(userDefaults, req.body);
    return user.isAdmin;
};
----

=== Compliant solution

The following samples adopt secure coding practices to prevent unauthorized
modifications to object prototypes by creating objects without a prototype:

[source,javascript,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
Object.freeze(Object.prototype);

function merge(target, source) {
    for (let key in source) {
        if (typeof target[key] === 'object' && typeof source[key] === 'object') {
            merge(target[key], source[key]);
        } else {
            target[key] = source[key];
        }
    }
    return target;
}

const userDefaults = {};
userDefaults.isAdmin = false;

> function (req, res) {

Author: Kevin

    const user = merge(userDefaults, req.body);
    return user.isAdmin;
};
----

=== How does this work?

==== Freeze the Object Prototype
One of the most effective ways to prevent prototype pollution is to make the
global ``++Object.prototype++`` immutable. You can do this using
``++Object.freeze()++``. Once frozen, its properties can no longer be added,
deleted, or changed.

You should apply this fix at the very beginning of your application's entry
point to ensure it is protected from the start.

==== Create Objects Without Prototypes
When you create a new object that will be populated with user-controlled data,
such as parsing a JSON string from a request, you can create it without
a prototype: ``++Object.create(null)++``.

> If the use case is to make a map or a dictionary, consider using a `Map` object
> over ``++Object.create(null)++``. +
> It it has a built-in get() method that only returns properties that are defined
> directly on the map itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For creating dictionaries or maps, a `Map` should be preferred over a plain object like `Object.create(null)`.
It has a built-in method `Map.get()` which is safer, as it only finds keys that were directly added to the map. This avoids accidentally accessing built-in object properties inherited from the Object prototype, such as `toString()` or `constructor`.
```
Rephrased this a bit, especially because `Map.get` does not really return properties, it's just a key-value store.
